"Alien" is not just the monster, it's the atmosphere and the way
you feel!

[Positive review]

In "Alien" we follow a seven man crew en-route to earth on board
the huge space freighter "Nostromo". The crew is in cryosleep,
but the on board computer interrupts the journey when a foreign
radio signal is picked up. It originates from an uninhabited
planet and the crew lands to investigate. There they make
contact with an alien life-form...What makes Alien so great is
the constant feel of uneasiness. Right from the beginning you
have a feeling that something is wrong. The crew is not
particularly friendly towards each other, and you truly feel all
the in-group tension. The ship itself is a huge worn out
industrial-style maze of halls and corridors, and it feels more
like a prison than a place to live. It is as if not only the
alien but also the ship itself is against the humans. The Alien
itself is the scariest monster in history because it is a
ruthless, soul-less parasite completely devoid of any human or
civilized traits. The design of the monster is a stroke of
genius. Sure it has a humanoid form, but it has no facial traits
or anything else which could give away emotions or intentions.
Its actions reveals no weaknesses nor civilized intelligence.
The Alien is more or less the opposite of everything human and
civilized, plus the creature is more well-adapted to the
inhumane interior of the ship than the humans who build it. To
sum up, you then have a setting where the humans are caught in a
web of in-group tensions, an inhospitable ship and the perfect
killer which thrives in the ships intestines. You almost get the
feel that the humans are the ones who are alienated to each
other and to their own ship.Ridley Scott tells the story with a
perfectly synchronized blend of visuals and sounds. The actors
do a superb job, portraying their characters in a subtle but
very realistic way. The seven man crew is not a bunch of
Hollywood heroes. They are ordinary people with strengths and
weaknesses, likes and dislikes. In this way they all seem so
fragile when confronted with the enemy. As mentioned the ship is
very claustrophobic and Ridley Scott adds to the eeriness by
using camera movement, lights and shadows in an effective way.
The living quarters are bright and should be comfortable to the
crew, but there is something sterile about it all. The rest of
the ship is basically a huge basement. The music by Jerry
Goldsmith underlines the eeriness so well, and the movie
wouldn't have worked without his score. Combined with the sounds
of the ship it all adds to the uneasiness. This is not a story
about heroic people who boldly teams up against evil. It's a
story about ordinary people facing true fear, which is the fear
without a face. The fear we can't understand and can't negotiate
with, because its only goal is to survive on the expense of us.
It's a story where some people bravely fight back whilst others
are destroyed by the terror. It's a story where people a killed
in a completely random way. There is no higher-order justice
behind who gets to live and who dies. All seven characters are
just part of a race where the fittest - not necessarily the most
righteous - will prevail, and all seven characters start the
race on an equal footing. None of them are true heroes, and none
of them are true villains. All the above makes Alien so great as
a horror movie. The terror isn't just the Alien itself, it's the
entire atmosphere which gets so effectively under your skin,
that you just can't shrug it off after the end credits like you
can with so many other Hollywood horror movies. The title
"Alien" doesn't just refer to the monster, it is the theme of
the movie and it is the feeling you have during and after the
movie. 9/10
----------------------------------------------------------------

Still holds up better than most horror movies of today's age

[Positive review]

I just came around to watch the original Alien on Netflix and I
have to say that I was positively surprised that a horror movie
from the '70s is this suspenseful and effective.The characters
actually behave like thinking human beings. The soundtrack is
great and the direction is superb. Especially when comparing
this movie to the modern movies with similar stories that
borrowed many of the things that are working well here.A classic
every horror and overall movie fan should watch.
----------------------------------------------------------------

The facehugger scared me as a kid and i still find em creepy.

[Positive review]

Everything has already been said about this great film n there
seems to be little left to say but lemme contribute a lil more
by praising how good this film is.I first saw this in the late
80s on a vhs n as a kid i found it to be a bit slow but was
shaken by the chestburster scene.The facehugger terrified me as
a kid.Revisited all the four parts in the early 2k on dvds which
i own.Revisited this part again few days back as i am on Alien
movie marathon n very impatient to check out Prometheus n
Covenant.I feel that this part is inspired by Bava's Planet of
the Vampires.The ruins with the skeletal remains, the design and
shots of the ship itself does have the deja vu effect.This one
is atmospheric n dark, gory at times, it has enuff stuff for sci
fi fans, it also has slasher n war like tone.But the best thing
is the feminist tone where in this part the women are not being
cast as the helpless victims.
----------------------------------------------------------------

A Timeless Science Fiction Masterpiece

[Positive review]

'Alien' is one of those special films that have aged very, very
well. Even now, after nearly 40 years, everything about it just
feels fresh. The restrained, natural performances by the
fantastic cast; the outstanding production design; the
beautiful, ominous score by Jerry Goldsmith; the realistic,
"lived-in" look of space-freighter Nostromo's interior: it
actually feels less dated than many science fiction films that
were made much later, which is quite an astonishing feat. Even
the (what now must be considered) "retro" technology inside the
ship doesn't necessarily have to be viewed as anachronistic in
the face of our obvious recent advancements, because it's the
most simple technological equipment that is usually robust
enough to survive the longest under harsh conditions (like the
extreme temperatures in space). I feel it's especially hard for
science fiction films to stand the test of time - which is kind
of inherent to the genre I suppose - and 'Alien' simply remains
an outstanding achievement in that regard. It's a testament to
the talent of everyone involved, but especially to the vision of
director Ridley Scott. The film was crafted with so much love
for every little detail, and the designs by Moebius, Chris Foss
- and in particular the Lovecraftian horrors unleashed by Swiss
surrealist H.R. Giger - are among the best and most iconic in
any science fiction film. This isn't just an outstanding,
timeless piece of entertainment: it's a work of art. 10 Stars
out of 10. Favorite films: IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-
Known Masterpieces: imdb.com/list/ls070242495/
----------------------------------------------------------------

Holds up as a classic.

[Positive review]

Alien remains one of the most original, terrifying movies of all
time. Compare this with the lame sci fi horrors we get nowadays,
1979, and it still packs a huge punch.Fantastically atmospheric,
chilling and terrifying even now, the story holds up incredibly
well. The special effects were incredible for the time, no
wonder the franchise is still in demand, though sadly nowhere
near the quality of this one or its amazing successor.The music
is fantastic, the direction is incredible, and as for the Alien
itself, way ahead of its time. Weaver is phenomenal, but
arguably she's upstaged by the creature.You can't help but
remember scenes days after watching it, it definitely has the
chill factor.A cinematic masterpiece. 10/10
----------------------------------------------------------------

In space no one can hear you scream

[Positive review]

First seen in 1979 , I was 15 Mum dropped me off. Seen once
every five years since.Seems to get better and better as time
goes on, maybe because as I mature, I appreciate the fine acting
details or is it that there are fewer and fewer films to compare
Alien to. Alien is a masterpiece in so many areas (in no order);
Editing, photography, acting, direction, art, music, sound,
script. In fact Alien ought to be mandatory viewing for every
film director whether budding or currently or even as a
refresher for well seasoned film makers.It's so clear Ridley was
able to make the film he wanted to make without interference
from non creative parties.
----------------------------------------------------------------

One of the best classic sci-fi horror films of all time - A
masterpiece

[Positive review]

A masterpiece one of the best classic sci-fi horror films from
the 70's I have ever saw and experience. The first time I saw
this film was in the 97 when I was 13 years old because this
film was so popular that time and even today people talk's about
it. Watching the first time this film I must say I loved it. I
love this film to death of all the sci-fi films today this one
is the best one and beats them all. This is the real science
fiction film about "extraterrestrial life form" it is
interesting, brilliant about time in the space and life form
that want's to whip whole humanity out. This is Ridley Scott's
masterpiece and one of his best films of all time. Everything
about this film is perfect, the script, the actors, puppetry,
models, and special effects about Alien design. I would give
this movie an 8 but it deserves a perfect 10 because it has a
vision of the most imaginative directors on earth. Dan O'Bannon
wrote brilliantly a story and screenplay with help from Ronald
Shusett. Both of them make a brilliant imaginative story. This
film has no plot holes I don't see them. Helen Horton as the
voice of Mother, the Nostromo's computer was believable and
realistic and well performed. The design for the parasite (the
facehugger) was excellent designed and brilliant. Everyone from
the cast in here at acting is spectacular and acts believable. I
love all the characters: Parker, Brett, Lambert, Ripley, Ash,
Captain Dallas, Kane and even Jonesy the cat. He was really
trained I love that cat in this movie. The design about the ship
Nostromo is fantastic and so is space and the computers in this
film. The eponymous Alien and its accompanying elements were
designed by the Swiss artist H. R. Giger which the effects and
designs were excellent spectacular created in the film. Jerry
Goldsmith makes an excellent music score for the film that I
have enjoy it. My favorite scene in this film is when Parker
torchers with flamethrower on Ash's corpse and burns his remains
great a special effect. This movie stars Tom Skerritt, Sigourney
Weaver, Veronica Cartwright, Harry Dean Stanton, John Hurt, Ian
Holm, Yaphet Kotto, Bolaji Badejo and Helen Horton they are all
believable in their roles.This is my favorite science fiction
film tough I prefer Aliens over this film (because it is my
favorite film), The Thing, Leviathan even The Blob as a horror
films because I enjoy them more but "Alien" is my favorite
science fiction film the best of it's kind. 10/10 doesn't
deserve the hate.
----------------------------------------------------------------

After 40 years it still scares the hell out of me

[Positive review]

When I see reviewers ratings less than five I have shake my head
in disbelief. Alien set a standard that has yet to be equaled
let alone surpassed. I watched it on the wide screen when it was
first released, and over a dozen times since. And even though I
know what's coming, the hairs on the back of my neck still stand
up. What a brilliant work of theatrical genius.
----------------------------------------------------------------

Ahead of its time

[Positive review]

1979... crazy. Looks better than modern movies. Great artwork
the alien. The original Alien was something special. Ridley
Scott was a master of suspense in that film, and it is also very
uncomfortable in 2022. The crew facing this creature alone in
space is a simple but very effective film. I love the fact that
Ripley is just another character in the film and that she is
forced to play the lead role when people are killed. Not heroin.
Heroine, full stop. The fact that Ellen Ripley is a woman
doesn't affect her level of badassery at all, although it does
affect her character in ways that make her far more interesting
than any other cinematic hero. She's complicated, she's real,
and I'm absolutely certain that the Alien films wouldn't have
become classics without her.In particular compared to modern
movies this is a great female lead. Overall just a great
classic.
----------------------------------------------------------------

Structural perfection matched only by its hostility

[Negative review]

Director Ridley Scott's well-honed talents of pacing and editing
create a tense atmosphere that superbly conveys dread and fear
of an unknown, unseen evil entity.  In 1979, the technology
didn't exist to generate a computer image of a Being from
another world, and thank God, because this film would have
sucked just like all these post-Alien creature features do.
Everyone who loves this movie knows what I'm talking about.
Ridley Scott had to be extremely careful not to show a full shot
of the Alien, except in very brief scenes, and not to reveal
exactly how it moves, because then we would see that it is just
some tall, skinny guy in a rubber suit.  Nowadays, some computer
guy would whip up a really scary-looking, but nevertheless FAKE-
looking (yes, computer guys, we can tell) Alien, and the
director would not have to even think about trying to breathe
life into H.R. Giger's hallucinations to make a successful
picture.The dark, cold beauty of this film will never be
equaled.
----------------------------------------------------------------

