One of my favorite movies of all time!

[Positive review]

Seriously, I know that sounds stupid as this is an animated
movie, but why can't we have a favorite movie that's animated?
If you ask me this is Disney's best animated film of all time.
Why do you ask? The animation is just beautiful, the story is
powerful and moving, the characters are terrific, the villain is
one of Disney's most monstrous and the songs are out of this
world incredible! Not only is it my favorite animated movie,
this is one of my favorite soundtracks, with the strong power of
Elton John The Lion King is absolutely beautiful and a pleasure
to watch still to this day. I have to say also that this story
is just so beautiful, it's still one of the movies that will
always bring a tear to my eye. When I was 17 years old, I begged
my dad to take me to the re-release of The Lion King, him and I
being the only adults besides the parents who took their
children to see the movie, Simba's father dies and I started
balling! My dad looks around and said "Krissy, stop it!" and I
just said "But it's so saaaaad! Simba's daddy!", yes I'm a sap,
I can't help it, this is a powerful movie.In the Pride Lands,
Rafiki, a wise old monkey, anoints Simba, the newborn cub of
King Mufasa and Queen Sarabi, and presents him to a gathering of
animals at Pride Rock. Taking advantage of the cub's naive
nature, Simba's scheming uncle Scar, who is very angry because
Simba's birth means that he's no longer next in line to the
throne tells him about the elephant graveyard, a place where
Mufasa has forbidden Simba to go. Simba asks his mother if he
can go to the water-hole with his best friend, Nala, but they go
to the graveyard instead. There, the cubs are met by Shenzi,
Banzai and Ed, 3 hyenas who try to kill them, but they are
rescued by Mufasa. But Scar doesn't give up there, he lures
Simba into a gorge for a "surprise from his father" while the
hyenas create a wildebeest stampede. Alerted by Scar, Mufasa
races to rescue Simba from the stampede. He saves his son but is
left clinging to the edge of a steep cliff. Scar flings his
brother into the stampede below. Simba sees his father fall and
rushes down the cliff after him, only to find him dead. Scar
convinces Simba that he was responsible for his father's death
and recommends that he runs away from the Pride Lands to avoid
punishment. In a distant desert, Simba is found unconscious by
Timon and Pumbaa, a duo who adopt and raise the cub under their
worry-free philosophy, Hakuna Matata. When Simba has grown into
an adult he is discovered by Nala, who tells him that Scar,
through his irresponsibility, has turned the Pride Lands into a
barren wasteland. She asks Simba to return and take his place as
king but Simba refuses, still believing he caused his father's
death. Rafiki arrives and persuades Simba to return to the Pride
Lands, and face Scar once and for all.I know that still that
Beauty and the Beast is the only animated film to get a best
picture nomination, but I don't understand why The Lion King
didn't get the same treatment. I adore this film with such a
passion, I will always defend it to the high end. I still watch
this movie, ever since it's theatrical release in 1994, I still
sing, dance, and rehears the lines back and forth. How could you
not at least with Hakuna Matata? Timon is my idol, he's so care
free, funny, and awesome during his drag hula scene "Luau! If
you're hungry for a hunk of fat and juicy meat, eat my buddy
Pumbaa here, 'cause he's a tasty treat come on down and dine, on
this tasty swine, all you gotta is get in line, are you achin',?
For some bacon? He's a big pig. You can be a big pig, too. Oy!
Ahhhh!", best scene ever in film history! OK, not in history,
but one of my favorites, it always has me on the floor laughing
till my stomach hurts. If you seriously haven't seen this movie,
see it! Who said that animated movies can't be true art? The
Lion King is a fantastic film and deserves all it's praise and
more.10/10
----------------------------------------------------------------

A Film For All Ages

[Positive review]

This is a film that can entertain anyone young or old, I usually
don't care for animated movies but this film is the real deal,
this is one of disney's best animated movies. The animation is
top notch and flawless. This film also features superb work from
the vocal cast James Earl Jones, Jeremy Irons, Whoopi Goldberg.
This is a standout.
----------------------------------------------------------------

The Best Animated Film I Have Ever Seen... revisited review some
decades later

[Positive review]

This was a foundational text for little me - saw it multiple
times theatrically to the point my dad just dropped me off at
the Teaneck theater (3 bucks in those days) and watched it by
myself for the first time - and back then as it still does today
it manages to fill your belly in under 90 minutes with Mythical
and even Mystical dimensions while also including Broadway
stalwarts like Nathan Lane and Ernie Sabella singing about
flatulence. It isn't enough to channel Hamlet or other sources
(or even other Disney epics), it's simply that the Lion King is
a master's class in pacing and tone and economical storytelling.
At heart what strikes me is that it's a saga that can mean a lot
to children (and I'm sure adults/parents) because it's at core
about that scene where Mufasa tells Simba he's disappointed.
That is the worst.Tones are not clashing haphazardly, but
flowing from one into another at just the right moments and
intervals. You may be lulled into complacency in Hakuna Matata,
and then you're reminded times are still dark (how Zazu lived so
long is kind of a miracle IMO). It earns its sorrow and painful
moments, but only dwells long enough for you to feel its impact.
It's a serious film, but there's joy and bright colors when need
be and boundless creativity in the set pieces (and my God does
Be Prepared play as a lot more sinister after the past several
years in this country).It doesn't need to explain why animals
who would normally be prey for ravenous lions hang with them,
because it has this dimension where things are precisely,
comfortably and when necessary harrowingly metaphorical. The
filmmakers and animators and storyboard artists have such a
solid base for a story that the character work takes center
stage: I love animation that is this expressive and soulful, and
the director's know that as much as the lines may convey
intentions and feelings, sometimes what isn't said speaks even
louder (look at Scar and Simba's faces and eyes for like every
second they are on screen, some of the best film acting of the
decade).I'm glad I still love this movie. Of course there are
some seams (its obvious to me now where Jim Cummings came in on
Prepared to step in when Jeremy Irons broke his voice on the
song), and the comic relief isn't as funny as in Aladdin or
Great Mouse Detective from that golden age. But it's powerful
and it's a strong example of how cinema can elevate problematic
politics (how Mufasa explains the Circle of Life is... hmm...)
----------------------------------------------------------------

The best Disney animated film ever...

[Positive review]

The best Disney animated film ever...This film had it all, it
was funny, emotional, had family drama, and above all, great
animation and songs! My personal favorite character is Rafiki,
the Baboon! I still cant forget the line he says to Simbe, "Past
can hurt, but as I see it, you can either run from it, or learn
from it!" it is so true! i loved Zazu's weirdness, and shenzi's
humor, above all, i loved Pumba's innocence and Timon's
intelligence! In short, i found the film the best film ever...
The voice cast is also great. Mathew did complete justice to
Simba, and what can I say about Mufasa, He is the best King, and
dad anyone can ever get! The movie is not meant for kids, its
meant to teach every adult a lesson...to find our place in the
great "Circle Of Life". I give this film a perfect 10.
----------------------------------------------------------------

This is what kid's movies should be like...

[Positive review]

I find it hard to believe that kid's movies these days will ever
be called classics in years to come (excluding Pixar movies). In
my mind, this is the last classic hand drawn film, and it upsets
me that I have to wait for another five years for it to come out
on DVD. This film deals with great issues and involves a huge
conflict for the main character, something that recent
kid/family films lack. It is funny and lighthearted when it
should be, and heartfelt and serious when it needs it. I believe
that everybody should see this movie, regardless of your age. It
may just be the last good movie that Disney will ever do without
the help of Pixar.
----------------------------------------------------------------

By far, the greatest Disney movie ever made...

[Positive review]

This movie is, quite seriously, the Citizen Kane of Disney
animation. Every animated movie from Disney ever since has been
a failed attempt to recreate the masterpiece that this film is.
This movie is an anomaly in a market usually dominated by
formulaic kiddie-fare. Unlike most films from animation studios,
this movie will enthrall you, whether you're 5 years old, or 50.
An epic plot, intriguing characters, great music and hillarious
moments make this film a family classic that will endure through
the ages. 10/10
----------------------------------------------------------------

TLK is Great

[Positive review]

I watched the film today and I have come to the conclusion that
this Disney film is one classic that will keep on delivering to
Disney fans like myself...TLK is a wonderful film with great
characters and songs with a powerful message that you can always
find your way back no matter how hard the journey...I think The
Lion King is one of the best Disney animated films matching with
the power of Bambi and Brother Bear.I love how Disney Works hard
to deliver the best in Animation,Song,And MagicI do believe that
2006 and many years from now The Lion King will Shine and still
Roar with Success...Thank-You Disney For The Lion King
----------------------------------------------------------------

A living masterpiece

[Positive review]

This is truly one of the best Disney movies ever. I really
enjoyed it when I first seen it, about when I was 6, and since
then I watched it over and over again. I simply LOOOOVED the
music. It's one of the best soundtracks I've ever heard. And,
speaking of soundtrack, I just can't tell in words how much I
love the song "Can You Feel The Love Tonight". Is one of my
favorite songs ever. I truly believe that this motion picture
could easily be nominated for The Best Picture, but The Best
Song and the Best Original Score is really enough. I wonder if
they will ever think to make a prequel of this movie in order to
understand who is Mufasa, Scar, Sarabi and the other characters.
In short, this movie will be remembered in the next 100 years.
Truly.
----------------------------------------------------------------

Masterpiece, the new one doesnt compare

[Positive review]

Watched the new one, and I think I had a disgusted look on my
face the entire time. The music, the visuals, the dialogue, the
voice acting, etc. Rewatched this one and remembered why this
was my favorite Disney movie growing up. From mufasa's death to
the goofy hyenas, to the bond between rafiki, simba and mufasa.
The music that everyone knows every word to, and scar's ability
to deliver each line perfectly. This movie is magic, the new one
seems to tech focused and forgot what made lion king so beloved
to begin with, its unfortunate. Hoping the circle of life makes
it way around and the end of remakes draws close (see what I did
there lol). Until then, lion king from the 90s will stay on my
shelf and my kids will watch with me. This new one will never
end up in my cart and I wont confuse my kids by watching it
either. Thank you 90s Disney for the magic!
----------------------------------------------------------------

The Lion King: 9/10

[Positive review]

Released Christmas Day in 2002 to IMAX and large format screens,
The Lion King makes a triumphant return to the screen after
eight years. Its every bit as majestic and great as it has been
before.The Lion King Mufasa (James Earl Jones) just had a baby
cub named Simba. All of the animals come to the ceremony, except
for Mufasa's brother Scar (Jeremy Irons). Scar desperately wants
to be King, but can't. As long as Mufasa and Simba are there.
Soon Simba is able to walk and talk and is voiced by Jonathon
Taylor Thomas. After hearing about an elephant graveyard from
Scar, he and his friend Nala (Niketa Calame) visit it. They meet
three bumbling hyenas: Banzai (Cheech Marin), Shenzi (Whoopi
Goldberg), and Ed (Jim Cummings), but they manage to leave
unhurt. Scar is upset that the hyenas didn't do the job, so he
orders a stampede to wipe out both of them, but it only takes
care of Mufasa. Scar convinces Simba that he killed Mufasa, not
Scar. So Simba flees into exile.The Lion King really benefits
from the larger screen. Its lavish landscapes will be able to
capture you more, and you can really savor the animation. Disney
didn't need any humans, so they could spend all of the time on a
great story and lush landscapes. In fact, its camera movement
was so majestic that you actually felt like you were part of the
pride of lions.The music boomed and really created the
atmosphere. Although I had seen this picture before, I still was
tense because of the way the music played out. Most of the time,
I would just roll my eyes at the attempt to make me nervous. But
Hans Zimmer's music really bowled me over and made my heart do
calisthenics. Unlike such new Disney pics like Lilo and Stitch,
the songs actually did some good. They took you out of a
somewhat dreary mood and put a smile on your face and made your
feet want to tap along. There were only a few, but they were
very entertaining. And the Circle of Life song at the beginning
was beautiful, with its perfect pictures and perfect sound.I
really like James Earl Jones (he's pretty diverse), and this
time was no exception. He seemed to act like he didn't want to
do this role, but he couldn't contain his excitement for wanting
to do voice-overs again (he had done some work in The Simpsons
before). Matthew Broderick redeemed himself for me (after the
atrocious Ferris Bueller's Day Off) by showing a strong voicing
as the adult Simba. Cheech Marin, Whoopi Goldberg, and Jim
Cummings really had good chemistry together, even though they
didn't have much screen time. Irons was really good and creepy
as Scar (one of those who you can't help but hate), and if that
is him really singing, brava!Be warned, The Lion King isn't
really for youngsters. It had intense thematic elements that
should have warranted a PG, instead of those that don't deserve
it (Lilo and Stitch, again). The mood that the music and the
script brought out could damper your day, so be warned.This is
one movie where you can feel for the characters. You don't say
`haha, he's dead', you say `Gasp! I'm so sad!' If it weren't for
the gifted scriptwriters, this movie would be kaput and a
nothing, not the best Disney movie ever made.The Lion King is a
majestic movie, not without humor, that is for almost all to
see.My rating: 9/10Rated G for intense thematic elements.
----------------------------------------------------------------

