Great kids movie!

[Positive review]

I think it's really annoying when I read reviews on here of a
kids movie and someone tears it apart. Do these people expect to
see Oscar award winning performances and production? As for this
film, I thought it was really cute. It's perfect for a kid's
imagination. I saw the movie at a pre-screening and every kid
afterwards was smiling and excitedly talking about the movie.
Sure there are some dumb jokes, etc., but overall the movie was
great. It was especially cool to see Dick Van Dyke and Mickey
Rooney working together.Take your kid to see this movie. Their
imagination will go wild and they might even be curious to go to
a history museum afterwards.
----------------------------------------------------------------

Fun and entertaining family film.

[Positive review]

True, it is overlong, some parts are a tad slow particularly the
beginning, and it was let down by bad marketing, but on the
whole Night At The Museum is a fun and entertaining family film.
Some of it is very, very funny, not hilarious, just funny, and
Ben Stiller gives a very good account of himself as Larry. The
museum characters are very well designed, and it was when they
came to life when the film let itself go. Dick Van Dyke and
Mickey Rooney are great fun in their roles, but my favourite has
to be Robin Williams as Theodore Roosevelt, in one of his more
entertaining "recent" films. Plus the story is imaginative and
fresh.All in all, I've said this more than once already, a fun
and entertaining film, flawed it is, but very enjoyable family
viewing. 7/10 Bethany Cox
----------------------------------------------------------------

Museums;   " Where   History   comes   Alive "

[Positive review]

All Hollywood movies have one thing in common. They have the
special ability to make past eras of history, rich, poignant and
interesting. That is the premise of this film, "A Night at The
Museum." It is the simple story of a father, Larry Daley (Ben
Stiller) who has developed a strained relation with his son. The
boy, like most children wishes his bond with his father was more
secure. Instead, Larry dreams of becoming an over-night success
with his wild 'get rich' schemes. In doing so he puts in
jeopardy the custody of his son. To remedy this situation, Larry
takes a job as a night-watchman at a museum. Unbeknownst to him,
three aging guards, Cecil, Gus and Reginald (Dick Van Dyke,
Mickey Rooney and Bill Cobbs) do not inform him of their
larcenous intentions, nor of the 'Special' magic which descends
upon the place each night. Because of the three aging veterans
of Hollywood and a well-placed Robin Williams, this movie is
destined for Classic status. Due to the incredible artistry of
special Effects, what the viewer sees is nothing short of
wondrous. This is a fantastic movie. If pressed to find a flaw
in the film, I'd say, I would have chosen someone like, Jim
Carey or Michael Richards for the father/son scenes as Mr.
Stiller was a bit artificial. Still, the movie is worth seeing
as it is. ****
----------------------------------------------------------------

A Flawed But Entertaining Family Movie

[Positive review]

30 December 2006. This Jumanji (1995) like growing up tale for
an adult male (Ben Stiller) taps into some nice special effects
and family value themes that just don't seem to mesh completely.
Ben sometimes ends up with his dumb, silly stereotyped character
from earlier films. And the casting of criminal characters are a
abit of a disappointing shock for older audience members,
especially without warning or clues. The female protagonists in
this movie are underdeveloped. With good intent, this fantasy
world of a museum coming to life had a lot of excitement, cute
scenes but it failed to deliver the potential as a classic
family comedy fantasy. Ben Stiller's development as a character
seemed to be uneven and inconsistent. And unlike Jumanji, it
seemed to revolve around the exploits of one man, alone who had
to grow up. There was some nice plausible explanations for the
use of English language, yet even so it was unnecessarily
inconsistent. Fun and entertaining, the movie doesn't reach the
levels of its possibilities. Six out of Ten Stars.
----------------------------------------------------------------

GREAT FUN, family or otherwise.  Well worth your time and money.

[Positive review]

Excellent fun flick... and best movie Dinosaur in a long time
;-)I promised my 8th grade nephew I'd take him to a movie this
Christmas break - without his younger brothers and sisters. He
originally wanted to see that dragon movie, but he found out it
sucked, so I suggested this one.With teens, there's the fine
balance between too "kid" oriented and too dark, but he was
laughing along the rest of the theater, and lost himself in the
fun with the rest of us.He wants to see it again, *I* want to
see it again, and I recommend it for anyone with a sense of fun.
It's also the first Ben Stiller movie in a while I can say that
about. I hope you all reward the studio for putting out a true
"family movie" for the holidays, so we'll see more in the
future.It was good to see Dick Van Dyke, Andy Rooney and Bill
Cobbs in light, comic roles, and Robin Williams in a solid
supporting role. They all lend the movie more
"credibility."GREAT FUN, easily worth 2 hours and $10.00, more
than once over.
----------------------------------------------------------------

A fun flick!

[Positive review]

I got to see a showing of Night at the Museum last night. I was
impressed by the trailers and I got really pumped when I saw
people like Stiller, Wilson, Robins, Rudd and more famous
comedian actors like Gervais in it.The movie starts out slow but
picks up once Stiller's character enters the museum. Once he
enters the chaos begins.The movie has it's up's and downs.
Sometimes it feels like it was trying too hard to be funny.
Don't get me wrong this movie is filled with laughs such as the
Stiller and the monkey slapping each others face which made me
laugh my ass off. Night at the Museum felt like a pattern to me,
no funny parts to little giggles and then the movie would make
you laugh so hard.All the famous faces really brought charm to
the movie and I don't think it would have work well with anyone
else.Night at the Museum is a fun movie worth seeing but not a
movie you will be looking back on in 10 years time.
----------------------------------------------------------------

Amusing film with adventures,action,entertainment  and full of
imagination and fantasy

[Positive review]

The film concerns about a divorced father(Ben Stiller)of his
spouse(Kim Raver) and with a son,he's unemployed when gets a job
at Museum of Natural History of New York City.He's assigned by
veterans security agents(Dick Van Dyke,Mickey Rooney,Bill Cobbs)
to night vigilance.There knows a beautiful tour guide(Carla
Gugino).But the allegedly easy employment results to be a
roller-coaster when encounters what an Egyptian curse causes the
ancient animals,beasts,historic personages and miniature are
brought to life originating wreak havoc and complications for
the unlucky night watchman.Thus several animals and historic
characters come to life , like a Tyrannosaurus
Rex,lions,monkeys,besides a Neardenthal
cavemen,Vikings,Attile(Patrick Gallaher) and the Huns,Chinese
Terra-cotta soldier,Christopher Columbus,Lewis and Clark with
Sacajawea(Mizuo Peck)Teodoro Roosevelt(Robin Williams)and
Octavius(Steve Coogan) and a cowboy(Owen Wilson).This
blockbuster displays action,adventures,fantasy and an enjoyable
father-son relationship.This fantastic film begins like a
familiar drama and continues with an authentic sense of magic
and wonder ,wind up an overlong bombastic wild ride made by
excellent special effects and with an exciting final
pursuit.Spectacular images and computer generator set pieces
action with several personages and animals can not erase the
charm of characters and ideas especially in the hands of
peerless casting.Colorful and lush cinematography by Guillermo
Navarro(Guillermo del Toro's usual cameraman)and lively musical
score by Alan Silvestri(Robert Zemeckis's usual musician).The
motion picture is beautifully executed with phenomenal
production values and well directed by Shawn Levy,he's a
familiar cinema expert:Cheaper by the dozen,Pink Panther,Just
married.The film contains numerous scenes have you on the edge
of your seat with a stunning array of technical images what will
be enjoyed for all family.
----------------------------------------------------------------

History Comes to Life in a Delightful Adventure

[Positive review]

In New York, the unemployed divorced Larry Daley (Ben Stiller)
is a complete loser. His son Nick (Jake Cherry) is very
disappointed with his father that is gong to be evicted, and
Larry accepts the job of night watchman in the Museum of Natural
History as the substituted for three old security guards that
have just retired to raise some money and pay his bills. In his
first nightshift, Larry realizes that everything at the museum
comes to life at night. The Museum transforms in a complete
chaos with the inexperienced Larry, and he learns that since an
old Egyptian stone came to the Museum in 1950, the wax statues
come to life until dawn. When Larry brings his son to spend a
night with him, the three old guards break in the Museum to
steal the magic stone. Larry organizes the historic characters
to help him to arrest the criminals and save the museum."Night
at the Museum" is a delightful adventure, with an original
story, great special effects and funny situations. Ben Stiller,
as usual, is hilarious in the role of a father that is a
complete loser and competing with a successful stepfather and
has the chance of his lifetime. Together with Robin Williams,
Patrick Gallagher, Steve Coogan and Owen Wilson, they are
responsible for an excellent family entertainment. The T-Rex
chasing his bone as a little dog is stunning and one of the
funniest jokes ever. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "Uma Noite
no Museu" ("A Night at the Museum")
----------------------------------------------------------------

Finally, a real family film

[Positive review]

What a cast! Ben Stiller, Owen Wilson, Robin Williams, Dick
VanDyke, Mickey Roney, Bill Cobbs...I'm not a Stiller fan, but
in this one he was really great, he steps out of his usual
shtick to really anchor this movie. For once he doesn't seem to
be trying too hard and avoids overdoing it.This is one of Robin
Williams' better modern roles, he's toned down but still
quintessentially Williams. It was nice to see him in a role that
he can both take seriously *and* have some fun with it.Owen
Wilson is still awesome, basically reprising his Shanghai Noon
character, but with a cute, rather unexpected twist.Dick Van
Dyke, Mickey Rooney and Bill Cobbs are classic, they haven't
lost a step. Rooney is still the little bantam rooster with the
attitude! Van Dyke clearly anchors the trio. Cobbs wasn't given
much to work with for his character, but his quality shines
through. These veteran comedic actors bring a bit of class and
legitimacy to the film.The movie is well paced, jumping almost
directly into the action, with plenty of laughs. From Rexie's
puppy-dog antics to the war between Old West Cowboys and Roman
Centurians, there is something around every corner.The only
stinker in this film is the kid. He's totally under-utilized for
the storyline, they could have improved the storyline by either
leaving the kid out of the movie entirely, or by giving him
something to do. The pseudo-love-interest, too, should have
either been played up or left out.This is an entirely enjoyable
family film. My 87 year old grandmother-in-law loved it, as did
my 9 year old daughter and my teenage sons! Truly something for
everyone.
----------------------------------------------------------------

Funny, imaginative and entertaining

[Positive review]

'Night at the Museum' is a creative and crowd-pleasing film with
an imaginative storyline. In many ways, it's like a bigger and
better version of Jumanji - a feast of special effects and an
entertaining plot to go with it.This is a funny film that
features some great comedic talents, including Robin Williams
and Ricky Gervais. Ben Stiller is very good as lead character
Larry and provides plenty of laughs. I've seen 'Night at the
Museum' a few times and it's a film I'm always happy to watch.
----------------------------------------------------------------

